# peer channel

## Description

The `peer channel` command allows administrators to perform channel related
operations on a peer, such as joining a channel or listing the channels to which
a peer is joined.

## Syntax

The `peer channel` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel create       [flags]
peer channel fetch        [flags]
peer channel getinfo      [flags]
peer channel join         [flags]
peer channel list         [flags]
peer channel signconfigtx [flags]
peer channel update       [flags]
```

For brevity, we often refer to a command (`peer`), a subcommand (`channel`), or
subcommand option (`fetch`) simply as a **command**.

The different command options (`create`, `fetch`...) relate to the different
channel operations that are relevant to a peer. For example, use the `peer
channel join` command to join a peer to a channel, or the `peer channel list`
command to show the channels to which a peer is joined.

Each peer channel subcommand is described together with its options in its own
section in this topic.

## Flags

Each `peer channel` command option has a set of flags specific to it, and these
are described with the relevant subcommand option.

All `peer channel` command options also have a set of global flags that can be
applied to `peer channel` command options.

The global flags are as follows:

* `--cafile <string>`

  where `<string>` is a fully qualified path to a file containing a PEM-encoded
  certificate chain of the Certificate Authority of the orderer with whom the
  peer is communicating. Use in conjunction with the `--tls` flag.

* `--certfile <string>`

  where `<string>` is a fully qualified path to a file containing a PEM-encoded
  X.509 certificate used for mutual authentication with the orderer. Use in
  conjunction with the `--clientauth` flag.

* `--clientauth`

  Use this flag to enable mutual TLS communication with the orderer. Use in
  conjunction with the `--certfile` and `--keyfile` flags.

* `--keyfile <string>`

  where `<string>` is a fully qualified path to a file containing a PEM-encoded
  X.509 private key used for mutual authentication with the orderer. Use in
  conjunction with the `--clientauth` flag.

* `-o, --orderer <string>`

  where `<string>` is the fully qualified address and port of the orderer
  with whom the peer is communicating.  If the port is not specified, it will
  default to port 7050.

* `--ordererTLSHostnameOverride <string>`

  where `<string>` is the hostname override to use when using TLS to communicate
  with the orderer specified by the `--orderer` flag. It is necessary to use
  this flag when the TLS handshake phase of communications between the peer and
  the orderer uses a different hostname than the subsequent message exchange
  phase.  Use in conjunction with the `--tls` flag.

* `--tls`

  Use this flag to enable TLS communications with an orderer. The certificates
  identified by `--cafile` will be used by TLS to authenticate the orderer.

## Usage

Here's an example that uses the `--orderer` global flag on the `peer channel
create` command.

* Create a sample channel `mychannel` defined by the configuration transaction
  contained in file `./createchannel.txn`. Use the orderer at `orderer.example.com:7050`.

  ```
  peer channel create -c mychannel -f ./createchannel.txn --orderer orderer.example.com:7050

  2018-02-25 08:23:57.548 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-25 08:23:57.626 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 019 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-25 08:23:57.834 UTC [channelCmd] readBlock -> DEBU 020 Received block: 0
  2018-02-25 08:23:57.835 UTC [main] main -> INFO 021 Exiting.....

  ```

  Block 0 is returned indicating that the channel has been successfully created.

## peer channel create

### Create Description

The `peer channel create` command allows administrators to create a
new channel. This command connects to an orderer to perform this function -- it
is not performed on the peer, even though the `peer` command is used.

To create a channel, the administrator uses the command to submit a
configuration update transaction to the orderer. This transaction describes the
configuration changes required to create a new channel. Moreover, this
transaction must be signed by the required organizations as defined by the
current orderer configuration. Configuration transactions can be generated by
the [`configtxgen` command](./configtxgen.html) and signed by the `peer channel signconfigtx` command.

### Create Syntax

The `peer channel create` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel create [flags]
```

### Create Flags

The `peer channel create` command has the following command specific
flags:

  * `-c, --channelID <string>`

    **required**, where `<string>` is the name of the channel which is to be
    created.

  * `-f, --file <string>`

    **required**, where `<string>` identifies a file which
    contains the configuration transaction required to create this channel. It
    can be generated by [`configtxgen` command](./configtxgen.html).

  * `-t, --timeout <integer>`

    **optional**, where `<integer>` specifies channel creation timeout in
    seconds. If not specified, the default is 5 seconds.  Note that if the
    command times out, then the channel may or may not have been created.

The global `peer` command flags also apply as follows:

  * `-o, --orderer` **required**
  * `--cafile` **optional**
  * `--certfile` **optional**
  * `--clientuth` **optional**
  * `--keyfile` **optional**
  * `--ordererTLSHostnameOverride` **optional**
  * `--tls` **optional**

### Create Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel create` command option.

* Create a new channel `mychannel` for the network, using the orderer at ip
  address `orderer.example.com:7050`.  The configuration update transaction
  required to create this channel is defined the file `./createchannel.txn`.
  Wait 30 seconds for the channel to be created.

  ```
  peer channel create -c mychannel --orderer orderer.example.com:7050 -f ./createchannel.txn -t 30

  2018-02-23 06:31:58.568 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-23 06:31:58.669 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 019 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-23 06:31:58.877 UTC [channelCmd] readBlock -> DEBU 020 Received block: 0
  2018-02-23 06:31:58.878 UTC [main] main -> INFO 021 Exiting.....

  ls -l

  -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 11982 Feb 25 12:24 mychannel.block

  ```

  You can see that channel `mychannel` has been successfully created, as
  indicated in the output where block 0 (zero) is added to the blockchain for
  this channel and returned to the peer, where it is stored in the local
  directory as `mychannel.block`.

  Block zero is often called the *genesis block* as it provides the starting
  configuration for the channel.  All subsequent updates to the channel will be
  captured as configuration blocks on the channel's blockchain, each of which
  supersedes the previous configuration.

## peer channel fetch

### Fetch Description

The `peer channel fetch` command allows a client to fetch a block
from the orderer. The block may contain a configuration transaction or
user transactions.

The client must have read access to the channel. This command connects to an
orderer to perform this function -- it is not performed on the peer, even
though the `peer` client command is used.

### Fetch Syntax

The `peer channel fetch` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel fetch [newest|oldest|config|(block number)] [<outputFile>] [flags]
```

  where

  * `newest`

    returns the most recent block available at the orderer for the channel. This
    may be a user transaction block or a configuration block.

    This option will also return the block number of the most recent block.

  * `oldest`

    returns the oldest block available at the orderer for the channel. This may
    be a user transaction block or a configuration block.

    This option will also return the block number of the oldest available block.

  * `config`

    returns the most recent configuration block available at the orderer for the
    channel.

    This option will also return the block number of the most recent
    configuration block.

  * `(block number)`

    returns the requested block for the channel. This may be a user transaction
    block or a configuration block.

    Specifying 0 will result in the genesis block for this channel being
    returned (if it is still available to the network orderer).

  * `<outputFile>`

    specifies the name of the file where the fetched block is written. If
    `<outputFile>` is not specified, then the block is written to the local
    directory in a file named as follows:

    * `<channelID>_newest.block`
    * `<channelID>_oldest.block`
    * `<channelID>_config.block`
    * `<channelID>_(block number).block`

### Fetch Flags

The `peer channel fetch` command has the following command specific
flags:

  * `-c, --channelID <string>`

    **required**, where `<string>` is the name of the channel for which the
    blocks are to be fetched from the orderer.

The global `peer` command flags also apply:

  * `-o, --orderer` **required**
  * `--cafile` **optional**
  * `--certfile` **optional**
  * `--clientuth` **optional**
  * `--keyfile` **optional**
  * `--ordererTLSHostnameOverride` **optional**
  * `--tls` **optional**

### Fetch Usage

  Here's some examples of the `peer channel fetch` command.

  * Using the `newest` option to retrieve the most recent channel block, and store it in the file `mychannel.block`.

    ```
    peer channel fetch newest mychannel.block -c mychannel --orderer orderer.example.com:7050

    2018-02-25 13:10:16.137 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
    2018-02-25 13:10:16.144 UTC [channelCmd] readBlock -> DEBU 00a Received block: 32
    2018-02-25 13:10:16.145 UTC [main] main -> INFO 00b Exiting.....

    ls -l

    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 11982 Feb 25 13:10 mychannel.block

    ```

    You can see that the retrieved block is number 32, and that the information
    has been written to the file `mychannel.block`.

  * Using the `(block number)` option to retrieve a specific block -- in this
    case, block number 16 -- and store it in the default block file.

    ```
    peer channel fetch 16  -c mychannel --orderer orderer.example.com:7050

    2018-02-25 13:46:50.296 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
    2018-02-25 13:46:50.302 UTC [channelCmd] readBlock -> DEBU 00a Received block: 16
    2018-02-25 13:46:50.302 UTC [main] main -> INFO 00b Exiting.....

    ls -l

    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 11982 Feb 25 13:10 mychannel.block
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  4783 Feb 25 13:46 mychannel_16.block

    ```

    You can see that the retrieved block is number 16, and that the information
    has been written to the default file `mychannel_16.block`.

For configuration blocks, the block file can be decoded using the
[`configtxlator` command](./configtxlator.html). See this command for an example
of decoded output. User transaction blocks can also be decoded, but a user
program must be written to do this.

## peer channel getinfo

### GetInfo Description

The `peer channel getinfo` command allows administrators to retrieve information
about the peer's local blockchain for a particular channel. This includes the
current blockchain height, and the hashes of the current block and previous
block. Remember that a peer can be joined to more than one channel.

This information can be useful when administrators need to understand the
current state of a peer's blockchain, especially in comparison to other peers in
the same channel.

### GetInfo Syntax

The `peer channel getinfo` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel getinfo [flags]
```

### GetInfo Flags

The `peer channel getinfo` command has no specific flags.

None of the global `peer` command flags apply, since this command does not interact with an orderer.

### GetInfo Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel getinfo` command.

* Get information about the local peer for channel `mychannel`.

  ```
  peer channel getinfo -c mychannel

  2018-02-25 15:15:44.135 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  Blockchain info: {"height":5,"currentBlockHash":"JgK9lcaPUNmFb5Mp1qe1SVMsx3o/22Ct4+n5tejcXCw=","previousBlockHash":"f8lZXoAn3gF86zrFq7L1DzW2aKuabH9Ow6SIE5Y04a4="}
  2018-02-25 15:15:44.139 UTC [main] main -> INFO 006 Exiting.....

  ```

  You can see that the latest block for channel `mychannel` is block 5.  You can also
  see the crytographic hashes for the most recent blocks in the channel's blockchain.

## peer channel join

### Join Description

The `peer channel join` command allows administrators to join a peer to an
existing channel. The administrator achieves this by using the command to
provide a channel genesis block to the peer. The peer will then automatically
retrieve the channel's blocks from other peers in the network, or the
orderer, depending on the configuration, and the availability of
other peers.

The administrator can create a local genesis block for use by this command by
retrieving block 0 from an existing channel using the `peer channel fetch`
command option.  The `peer channel create` command will also return a local
genesis block when a new channel is created.

### Join Syntax

The `peer channel join` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel join [flags]
```

### Join Flags

The `peer channel join` command has the following command specific
flags:

  * `-b, --blockpath <string>`

  **required**, where `<string>` identifies a file containing the channel
    genesis block.  This block can be retrieved using the `peer channel
    fetch` command, requesting block 0 from the channel, or using the `peer
    channel create` command.

None of the global `peer` command flags apply, since this command does not interact with an orderer.

### Join Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel join` command.

* Join a peer to the channel defined in the genesis block identified by the file
  `./mychannel.genesis.block`. In this example, the channel block was
  previously retrieved by the `peer channel fetch` command.

  ```
  peer channel join -b ./mychannel.genesis.block

  2018-02-25 12:25:26.511 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-25 12:25:26.571 UTC [channelCmd] executeJoin -> INFO 006 Successfully submitted proposal to join channel
  2018-02-25 12:25:26.571 UTC [main] main -> INFO 007 Exiting.....

  ```

  You can see that the peer has successfully made a request to join the channel.

## peer channel list

### List Description

The `peer channel list` command allows administrators list the channels to which
a peer is joined.

### List Syntax

The `peer channel list` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel list [flags]
```

### List Flags

The `peer channel list` command has no specific flags.

None of the global `peer` command flags apply, since this command does not interact with an orderer.

### List Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel list` command.

* List the channels to which a peer is joined.

  ```
  peer channel list

  2018-02-25 14:21:20.361 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  Channels peers has joined:
  mychannel
  2018-02-25 14:21:20.372 UTC [main] main -> INFO 006 Exiting.....

  ```

  You can see that the peer is joined to channel `mychannel`.

## peer channel signconfigtx

### SignConfigTx Description

The `peer channel signconfigtx` command helps administrators sign a
configuration transaction with the peer's identity credentials prior to
submission to an orderer. Typical configuration transactions include creating a
channel or updating a channel configuration.

The administrator supplies an input file to the `signconfigtx` command which
describes the configuration transaction. The command then adds the peer's public
identity to the file, and signs the entire payload with the peer's private key.
The command uses the peer's public and private credentials stored in its local
MSP. A new file is not generated; the input file is updated in place.

`signconfigtx` only signs the configuration transaction; it does not create it,
nor submit it to the orderer. Typically, the configuration transaction has been
already created using the [`configtxgen` command](.configtxgen.html), and is
subsequently submitted to the orderer by an appropriate command such as `peer
channel update`.

### SignConfigTx Syntax

The `peer channel signconfigtx` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel signconfigtx [flags]
```

### SignConfigTx Flags

The `peer channel signconfigtx` command has the following command specific
flags:

  * `-f, --file <string>`

  **required**, where `<string>` identifies a file containing the channel
    configuration transaction to be signed on behalf of the peer.

None of the global `peer` command flags apply, since this command does not interact with an orderer.

### SignConfigTx Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel signconfigtx` command.

* Sign the `channel update` transaction defined in the file
  `./updatechannel.txn`. The example lists the configuration transaction file
  before and after the command.

  ```
  ls -l

  -rw-r--r--  1 anthonyodowd  staff   284 25 Feb 18:16 updatechannel.tx

  peer channel signconfigtx -f updatechannel.tx

  2018-02-25 18:16:44.456 GMT [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 001 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-25 18:16:44.459 GMT [main] main -> INFO 002 Exiting.....

  ls -l

  -rw-r--r--  1 anthonyodowd  staff  2180 25 Feb 18:16 updatechannel.tx

  ```

  You can see that the peer has successfully signed the configuration
  transaction by the increase in the size of the file `updatechannel.tx` from 284 bytes to 2180 bytes.

## peer channel update

### Update Description

The `peer channel update` command allows administrators to update an
existing channel.

To update a channel, the administrator uses the command to submit a
configuration transaction to the orderer which describes the required channel
configuration changes. This transaction must be signed by the required
organizations as defined in the current channel configuration. Configuration
transactions can be generated by the [`configtxgen` command](.configtxgen.html) and signed by the `peer channel signconfigtx` command.

The update transaction is sent by the command to the orderer, which validates
the change is authorized, and then distributes a configuration block to every
peer on the channel. In this way, every peer on the channel maintains a
consistent copy of the channel configuration.

### Update Syntax

The `peer channel update` command has the following syntax:

```
peer channel update [flags]
```

### Update flags

The `peer channel update` command has the following command specific
flags:

  * `-c, --channelID <string>`

    **required**, where `<string>` is the name of the channel which is to be updated.

  * `-f, --file <string>`

    **required**, where `<string>` identifies a transaction configuration file.
    This file contains the configuration change required to this channel, and
    it can be generated by [`configtxgen` command](./configtxgen.html).

The global `peer` command flags also apply as follows:

  * `-o, --orderer` **required**
  * `--cafile` **optional**
  * `--certfile` **optional**
  * `--clientuth` **optional**
  * `--keyfile` **optional**
  * `--ordererTLSHostnameOverride` **optional**
  * `--tls` **optional**

### Update Usage

Here's an example of the `peer channel update` command.

* Update the channel `mychannel` using the configuration transaction defined in
  the file `./updatechannel.txn`. Use the orderer at ip address
  `orderer.example.com:7050` to send the configuration transaction to all peers
  in the channel to update their copy of the channel configuration.

  ```
  peer channel update -c mychannel -f ./updatechannel.txn -o orderer.example.com:7050

  2018-02-23 06:32:11.569 UTC [channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 003 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
  2018-02-23 06:32:11.626 UTC [main] main -> INFO 010 Exiting.....

  ```

  At this point, the channel `mychannel` has been successfully updated.
