v2.0.1 Release Notes - February 26, 2020
========================================

Fixes
-----

**FAB-17458: Rolling upgrade: Different endorsement results on v1.4.x and v2.0.0 peers**

In a rolling upgrade scenario where V2_0 channel application capability is not yet set,
and proposals are sent to v1.4.x peers and v2.0.0 peers,
the endorsed read sets did not exactly match in the proposal response between
the v1.4.x peers and v2.0.0 peers. This resulted in transaction
invalidation at commit time with error message
"marked as invalid by committer. Reason code [ENDORSEMENT_POLICY_FAILURE]".
The proposal response is fixed in v2.0.1 so that the read sets will exactly
match read sets on v1.4.x peers, enabling transactions to be endorsed across
peers of different versions.

**FAB-17479: Migrated Kafka cluster can be safely expanded later**

When a new ordering service node was added to a migrated Kafka cluster,
but was not added to all channels, the ordering service node would crash.
The fix ensures that new ordering nodes can be added to a subset of channels.

**FAB-17453: 'peer lifecycle chaincode package' required an MSP configured**

'peer lifecycle chaincode package' is for local packaging of chaincode only,
and therefore no longer requires a MSP to be configured.

**FAB-17059: Change collection membership eligibility checks to only compare mspID**

When a new CA root cert was added to an organization in the channel configuration,
new peers with an identity from the new CA would not receive private data for
blocks prior to the channel configuration change. This is because the peer didn't
realize it was a member of the private data collection, even though it was
based on the collection's mspid. The fix ensures that the peer evaluates
private data collection membership based on its mspid. The fix is important
when rotating CA root or intermediate certs, for example in a side-by-side
migration scenario that uses new CA certs and new peers.

**FAB-17519: Improve Discovery endorsement policy performance**

Fix peer CPU spikes during evaluation of endorsement policy
combinations, due to expensive reflection.

**FAB-17523: Endorsing peer was not honoring private data RequiredPeerCount**

If there were not enough known eligible peers to meet the private data collection RequiredPeerCount
dissemination requirement, endorsement was succeeding rather than returning an error.

**[FAB-17491] Do not disseminate private data for other organization's implicit collection**

When using the new implicit private data collections in v2.0.0, in some use cases
private data needs to be written to each of multiple organization's implicit
private data collections in the same transaction. In these cases the endorsing peers were
disseminating the private data to each of the respective organization's peers.
Although not a security problem (each organization is authorized to receive its
own implicit collection private data), dissemination should be managed by the endorsing
peers of the implicit collection organization only. This fix ensures that only peers
of the implicit collection organization disseminate the private data to their own
organization's other peers.

**[FAB-17515] Support configuring BlockValidation policy for orderer group**

Prior to the fix, a configured BlockValidation policy (e.g. defined in configtx.yaml)
would be ignored. The policy is now applied in the channel creation transaction, and
must be specified.


Known Issues and Workarounds
----------------------------
**FAB-12134: Same chaincode source receiving fingerprint mismatch error**

When using the legacy chaincode lifecycle, chaincode installed in different
ways may result in "chaincode fingerprint mismatch data mismatch" error
upon instantiation.  This may happen when installing chaincode by using
different SDKs. To workaround the problem, package the chaincode prior to
installation and instantiation, by using the "peer chaincode package" command.


Known Vulnerabilities
---------------------
**FAB-8664: Peer should detect and react when its org has been removed**

This is a relatively low severity problem, because it requires a significant
conspiracy of network admins, but it will be addressed in a future release.


Resolved Vulnerabilities
------------------------
None.

For the full list of changes, refer to the release change log:
https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/release-2.0/CHANGELOG.md#v201
