v2.1.1 Release Notes - June 1, 2020
===================================

Fixes
-----

**FAB-17778: Fix policy support of multiple signatures from single organization**

Fix de-duplication logic to ensure sufficient number of signatures are received to satisfy
policies that require multiple signatures from the same organization.
This problem is rare since most users have policies that require signatures from different
organizations, not policies that require multiple signatures from the same organization.

**FAB-17722: Validate HSM session and get new if invalid**

Previously the pkcs11 code was set to have a session cache and reuse sessions
if available in cache. If a session went bad (due to connection issues with HSM),
the session was not evicted from cache and would be reused.
If all sessions went bad, the client would never be able to recover and keep using bad sessions.

**FAB-17728: Add delay to pkcs11 create session loop**

Previously there was no backoff when attempting to create a new session if one was not
available in the HSM session cache. This fix introduces a hardcoded backoff of 100ms
after each attempt up to 10.

**FAB-17784: Clarify error message when legacy chaincode install fails during build**

When a legacy chaincode install fails due to an error building the
chaincode, the chaincode will remain installed on the peer. This change clarifies
the error message so that users understand the behavior:
"chaincode installed to peer but could not build chaincode".

**FAB-17844: Copy symlinks as-is in external builder output**

Previously, the external builder code did es not check for symlinks in build output
when copying them. This resulted in the resolved files being copied as files
instead of symlinks. This commit changes the external builder code so that
it tests for symlinks, and copies them as symlinks instead of copying them as
files into the destination directory.

**External builder switch from os.Stat to exec.LookPath**

Replace call to os.Stat to check for the presence of the bin/release script with exec.LookPath.
The LookPath function, when provided with a relative path, will look for the presence of the
executable and determine if it's executable. On non-unix platforms, it will also handle looking
for executable suffixes as appropriate.

**FAB-17907: New chaincode lifecycle should ignore previous build failure during install**

When a chaincode build previously failed while installing the chaincode, the new lifecycle
would not attempt to rebuild the chaincode on the next install attempt, rather the prior
build error message was returned to the client. This change ensures that the subsequent
install attempt rebuilds the chaincode.

**FAB-17733: Validate TLS certs during raft consenter addition**

Validate the client/server TLS certs against the orderer organizations while adding a raft consenter.


For the full list of changes, refer to the release change log:
https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric/blob/release-2.1/CHANGELOG.md#v211
